# Getting started with the XBRL / iXBRL Compare Tool 
The XBRL / iXBRL Compare Tool allows you to compare the outline or the facts of two XBRL or iXBRL files. This lets you see what values need to be corrected in the files. 

**Important:** This tool does not allow you to edit the files directly. Use \[???????\] to update the files. 

# **Comparing Facts** 
After you have added the files to be compared, selecting the **Compare Facts** tab lets you see what differences exist between the facts files. 

To compare two XBRL fact files, complete the following steps. 1. Open the XBRL Compare tool. \(If you have not downloaded it yet, you can get it [here](https://s3.amazonaws.com/services-platform-dev/XBRL_Comparer/XBRL_Installer.msi).\) 2. Click **Add**, and select the files that you want to compare. 3. Click the **Compare Facts** tab. 4. Select the **Source** and **Destination** files from the pulldown menus in the upper left of the tab. 5. The **Source Facts** area populates with the facts. Highlights indicate the status of the fact: - Items highlighted in **blue** have a perfect match between the source and destination files. - Items highlighted in **yellow** mean that there is a discrepancy between the source and destination files. - Items highlighted in **orange** indicate facts that are present in one file \(typically the Source file\), but not in the comparison \(Destination\) files. Scrolling through the Source Facts list reveals which facts have what status. Refer to [Facts Details Table](#reference_gct_tn1_zkb) for information on the elements of each fact. Below the Fact Details tables are the axis and member value tables. If there is a dimensioned \(derived from 2 or more facts\) value in the details, these show the elements that define that dimension. ## Facts Details Table The Details Table fields in the upper right show the status for each element of a Fact when that Fact is selected in Source Facts list. |Field Name|Description| |----------|-----------| |Hidden|Is this field hidden \("true"\) or displayed \("false"\)?| |Count|DEFINITION NEEDED| |Unit Measurement|Units fact is measured in. Example: iso4217:USD, or xbrli:shares| |xsi:nil|If this is "true", it indicates that, although the element exists, it is either unknown or has no content. **Note:** This attribute applies only to *element* values, not to *attribute* values. An element with xsi:nil="true" may still have other attributes, even if it is empty. | |Decimals|Number of decimal places to be used when rounding this value. Typical values are 2, INF\(infinite\), -3, -5. Negative values indicate the size of the number class \(-3 indicates "thousands", -5 indicates "hundred thousands"| |[Scale](https://www.sec.gov/page/osd_xbrlglossary)|How many zeros are to be used so that the number displays correctly.| |Value|Value of the fact. This may be a number or text.| |Instant|Does this value use the report start date \("true"\) or \("false"\)?| |Start|Start date for the value.| |End|End date for the value.| |[Dimension](https://www.xbrl.org/guidance/xbrl-glossary/#dimension)|Number of [dimensions](https://docs.oracle.com/en/cloud/saas/enterprise-performance-reporting-cloud/udepr/about_dimensions_172x8e51bd9a.html) permitted for the fact.| # **Comparing Outlines** After you have added the files to be compared, selecting the **Compare Outline** tab lets you see what differences exist between the facts files. To compare two XBRL outline files, complete the following steps. 1. Open the XBRL Compare tool. \(If you have not downloaded it yet, you can get it [here](https://s3.amazonaws.com/services-platform-dev/XBRL_Comparer/XBRL_Installer.msi).\) 2. Click **Add**, and select the files that you want to compare. 3. Select the **Compare Outline** tab. 4. Select the **Build Outlines** sub-tab 5. Use the **Schema**, **Presentation** , and **Label** pulldown menus in the upper left of the tab to select the files for the first outline. - The **Schema** file is an .xsd format file. - The **Presentation** file is an .xml format file. - The **Label** file will be an .xml format file. 6. Enter a name for this outline in **Outline Name**, and click **Create**. The outline information area is populated with the information contained in the outline. 7. Repeat steps 4 and 5 to create the second outline. 8. Select the **Compare Facts** sub-tab. 9. Select the first outline you created in the **Source** pulldown menu. 10. Select the second outline you created in the **Destination** pulldown menu. This populates the list areas for the **Source Sections**, **Destination Sections**, and the fact detail information areas for each. 11. In these list areas, the highlights indicate the status of the elements: - Items highlighted in **blue** have a perfect match between the source and destination files. - Items highlighted in **yellow** mean that there is a discrepancy between the source and destination files. - Items highlighted in **orange** indicate facts that are present in one file \(typically the Source file\), but not in the comparison \(Destination\) files. 12. Selecting a fact in the **Source Sections** area displays the details for that fact for both the Source and Destination files in the fact details area at the right of the screen. ## Outline comparison page THis page Showas the destination Sections of the XBRL file # **Generating a report** After you have added the files to be compared, selecting the **Compare Outline** tab lets you see what differences exist between the facts files. To compare two XBRL outline files, complete the following steps. 1. Open the XBRL Compare tool. \(If you have not downloaded it yet, you can get it [here](https://s3.amazonaws.com/services-platform-dev/XBRL_Comparer/XBRL_Installer.msi).\) 2. Click **Add**, and select the files that you want to compare. 3. Seect the **Build Outlines** sub-tab 4. Use the **Schema**, **Presentation** , and **Label** pulldown menus in the upper left of the tab to select the files for the first outline. - The **Schema** file is an .xsd format file. - The **Presentation** file is an .xml format file. - The **Label** file will be an .xml format file. 5. Enter a name for this outline in **Outline Name**, and click **Create**. The outline information area is populated with the information contained in the outline. 6. Repeat steps 4 and 5 to create the second outline. 7. Select the **Compare Facts** sub-tab. 8. Select the first outline you created in the **Source** pulldown menu. 9. Select the second outline you created in the **Destination** pulldown menu. This populates the list areas for the **Source Sections**, **Destination Sections**, and the fact detail information areas for each. 10. In these list areas, the highlights indicate the status of the elements: - Items highlighted in **blue** have a perfect match between the source and destination files. - Items highlighted in **yellow** mean that there is a discrepancy between the source and destination files. - Items highlighted in **orange** indicate facts that are present in one file \(typically the Source file\), but not in the comparison \(Destination\) files. 11. Select the first outline you created in the **Source** pulldown menu.
